# [How AI Is Changing College Majors In 2026](https://nchstats.com/ai-changing-college-majors/)
[by Robert McAllister ](https://nchstats.com/author/robert/)

---
Its interesting how at some universities, computer science higher education cirricula is developing to be AI-centric. Often when people graduate with CS degrees, they become software devlopers/engineers and many feel that their education did not actually prepare them for the work they do on a daily basis. The article detials the specific changes a university (UW-Madison) has undergone to adapt to the current state of technology. A new college was developed combining Computer Science, Data Science, Information Technology, and Statistics. The combination of these is meant to aid aspiring software developers in integrating AI. I think it's interesting how AI has changed the field of software enginnering itself. It mirrors the imapct of the World Wide Web decades ago. Its also interesting to see universities' approaches and changes regarding AI and how to incorporate it, especially for future software enginners. Though is it useful to learn about AI itself and how it works? It's difficult to determine if changes like these (additions of colleges, change in ciricula, etc.) will prepare students for the workforce. 

Though sometimes traditional classes can have a use case. Often software engineers have to deal with keeping things running. Courses like operating sysems prepare students for software engineering by helping them understand fundamentals when curating systems. LLMs may have trouble with things like memory leaks and resource constraints. I imagine the addition of this college has some of the fundamental courses that may be useful for software egnieering since the field itself is gearing toward managing systems and designing for reliability and scaling.